Contributing Guidelines (#6702)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/general/contributing.md

!!!info "Run the Wiki Locally"

>       For more information about how to run the Wiki locally on your machine visit [the README file on GitHub](https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-wiki/blob/master/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      For more information about how to run the Wiki locally on your machine, visit [the README file on GitHub](https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-wiki/blob/master/README.md#running-locally).
```

### General Guidelines

> The overarching theme is to ensure the Polkadot Wiki achieves longevity in its content, ensuring that it adheres to the guidelines ensures that maintenance is low and quality of new content is high.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overarching theme is to ensure that the Polkadot Wiki's content is long-lasting, adheres to the guidelines, minimizes maintenance, and continues to have a high-quality standard.
```

#### Avoid informal language

Avoid using exclamation marks `!` and informal sentences, which are usually more appropriate for blog posts.

#### Grammar and consistency

Running a grammar check before submitting your pull request for review can save reviewers time and speed up the review process.

To ensure consistency across pages, note the following general terms:
- `relay chain` in text and `Relay chain` at the beginning of a sentence.
- `parachain` in text and `Parachain` at the beginning of a sentence.

#### Clarity

Prioritize clear, concise, and direct language. Assume the reader has a basic understanding of blockchain concepts but may be new to Polkadot.  
- **Example:** Instead of: "The utilization of a multi-chain architecture enables the facilitation of diverse transactional modalities."  
  

> - Write: "Polkadot's heterogeneous, multi-chain design allows for different types of transactions to be validated on the network."  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write: "Polkadot's heterogeneous, multi-chain design allows different types of transactions to be submitted on the network."  
```

Reviewer: maybe we should prioritize active voice?

#### Longevity

Prioritize information that is expected to remain relevant for an extended period. Avoid language that quickly becomes outdated.  
- **Example:** Instead of: "The upcoming upgrade will introduce new governance features."  
- Write: "Polkadot governance allows token holders to participate in decision-making." (This describes the general function, not a specific, time-sensitive upgrade)  

#### Accuracy

Ensure all information is technically accurate and up-to-date. The Polkadot ecosystem evolves rapidly, so meticulous attention to detail is crucial.  

> !!!note
>     The Polkadot Wiki should only contain features that are live on the Polkadot relay chain, and should not refer to / allude to any upcoming features until they are live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!!note "Production-only Features"
    The Polkadot Wiki should only contain features live in production, on the Polkadot relay chain. It should not allude to any feature on test networks or Kusama.
```

Reviewer: I would add this banner under the "Longevity" section

#### Consistency

Maintain a consistent style and terminology throughout all documentation. This creates a professional and cohesive experience for the reader.  
- **Example:** Always use the term "parachain" and not "parallel chain" or "para-chain."  

#### Mainnet focus

> Document features and information *only* when they are live and available on the Polkadot mainnet. Exclude information about features that are only available on Kusama, Westend, or other testnets.  

Reviewer: This is duplicated content from the previous banner. We can merge this into the "Longevity" section

- **Example:** Do not include a section on a new XCM feature if it is only live on Kusama. Only document it once it is available on Polkadot Mainnet.  

#### Objectivity

> Present information in a neutral and objective tone, avoiding hype or marketing language.  

Reviewer: This can go in the next section about "Voice and Tone"

- **Example:** Instead of: "Polkadot is the most revolutionary blockchain technology..."  
- Write: "Polkadot is a network that enables interoperability between different blockchains."

### Voice and tone

> #### Voice

Reviewer: Should we suggest using active voice?

Author: Yes, I clarified that we should use an active voice. The example may be useful to help those understand what exactly we mean.
